When I think of complexity, typically,
I break it down into micro,
mezzo, and macro.
So mezzo is kind of that in-between state.
I had to Google it where I'm like,I know
what macro is, like, what is in between?
And, I realized that the word is mezzo,
and so,
I think of complexity in micro,
mezzo, and macro levels.
And, what's interesting is
that when I think about
managing state and
full control, and code volume,
is that the principles that I have to
adhere to apply at the local code level.
So imagine you're inside of a function and
you're trying to manage the output of that
function, so that's at a micro level.
So I think of that like a component level.
And then at a mezzo level,
I think of that in terms of components or
libraries kind of within
intra-component communication,
and possibly up to the application.
And then when I think about
macro complexity is I definitely
think it the application or
applications level.
So just to set that context is that
when I talk about micro complexity,
I'm talking about local complexity or
really kind of component level complexity,
mezzo would be kind of components and
libs communicating within an application.
And then macro would be
application level complexity or
applications level complexity.
And so starting with local complexity,
the questions that I asked myself,
when I look at code is,
so imagine you've just
opened up a new project.
You've just got put on a new project and
you open up some code.
The first thing I'm gonna ask is,
what does this do?
But, as I'm asking that question,
I'm mentally going through and
I'm asking myself,
can I know the result of this
code every single time and
not only that, can I reuse this code?
So just through muscle memory,
I'm starting to qualify the code
that I'm looking at is I parse through,
and I'm asking myself,
can I know the result of
this code at all times?
And if I can't,
then I found that that has a direct
direct impact on my ability
to figure out what it does.
Can I reuse this code?
And if the answer is no, then typically,
not only do I have to figure out what
that code does, but I have to figure
out the context in which it exists.
And can I test this code?
And so this is the big one.
So ultimately, can I test it?
Can I reuse it?
Or is it portable?
Is it testable?
Is it portable?
And so now this leads into what I
affectionately call the axis of evil.
And so if I had to write down
what I do when I program on
a single sheet of paper,
this would be at the top.
That when almost on every
single project I would say,
over 80% of the code that
I see out in the wild and
the problems and the complexity
that come from it are because or
exists because that
somebody has violated or
made a deal with the devil
via the access of evil.
And so from here,
I wanna start with the statement,
it is impossible to write good test for
bad code.
I just do not believe it is possible.
I think you can write hacky test for
bad code.
It's very, very hard, if not impossible
to write good test for bad code.
So if you're committed to writing
test which testing is like flossing,
that everybody believes
that they should floss but
not everybody does floss,
at least consistently.
Like every time I go to the dentist,
I just basically have to cross my fingers
and lie, like I've totally been flossing
every night for the last six weeks
that's why my teeth are awesome, and
probably not mostly true at all, but yes.
Do you think you should floss?
Absolutely.
And how many people do it?
Well, that's neither here nor there.
But, when you go to an engagement and
you ask your team members or
you ask your client, hey,
what do you think about testing?
You should totally do it.
Okay, what's your test coverage?
And all sudden there's a power outage and
Ninja smoke bombs and they disappear,
it's just this weird awkward
moment of like, well,
we don't actually write test,
we haven't had time to do it.
And one of the reasons is because
the barrier to entry to writing test is so
high.
There's too much friction
to writing good test.
Why?
Because more often than not,
they're not writing testable code.
So if you're committed to writing test,
then you must commit to
writing testable code.
And so, I can honestly say that if this
is all you took from the workshop today,
that you've just paid yourself a ton
of money into the future, because
this is one of the fundamental things
that I run into over and over and over.
This is why we're starting
At Volvo complexity.
And so, the axis of evil, what is this?
So, let's look at this code here.
This is a variation of something I've seen
a bazillion times, over and over and over.
And you basically called recalculate
total, you pass in a widget and
then based on whatever the mode is,
then it does something and
then it recalculates the total, all right?
So, on the surface, you could be tricked
into thinking like this is okayish code.
I've used all of the cool,
immutable operators,
I'm using ternary functions,
fat arrow function.
So somebody might think like, yeah, this
looks like pretty decent, this is okay.
And so the question that I have is,
when I run this code,
so imagine I have a test-widget.
And I call this method three times
with the same test-widget.
What am I going to get?
The answer is, we have no idea.
You can never ever, ever know what
you're going to get when you call
this method with the same parameter,
you'll get a different result
potential every single time.
The reason being is because
the return value of this function or
the output of this function is dependent
on a property outside of that method.
And so, the ringleader of
the axis of evil is hidden state.
And what's interesting
is we talk about these.
These are the worst.
These are scoundrels,
in the programming world, they're evil,
and yet they're the easiest things to fix.
So in this method,
this single line is going
to bring us about all sorts
of pain in your life.
It's the single piece of hidden state
that makes this function
totally unpredictable.
And so the question is, or rather,
we'll get to the solution.
I'm gonna leave you on a cliffhanger here.
So the next one, violating the SRP.
And so when I say SRP, I'm talking about
the single responsibility principle.
And this is a very, very, huge problem.
So, you'll notice when I described this
function, I said, okay, it takes a widget,
then based on the mode, it does something,
and then it recalculates the price.
If you are describing a function or
a block of code and
you say it does this and stop,
you are breaking the single
responsibility principle.
And now for me to test recalculate total,
I have to now test essentially
two blocks of code or
two things within a single test.
All sudden, what do you know?
My complexity is going up and
nested logic.
So within this,
we have at least four statements or
blocks of code that are doing specific
things that first of all l cannot test.
How would l test the code
in the update block?
Well, l would have to step over.
Imagine someone in a movie theater like,
excuse me, excuse me,
trying to get to their seat.
In order to test this, I basically have
to set up the super complicated test so
that I can hit the update block so I can
test my ability to update that collection.
Not only that, is I can never ever,
ever, ever, ever reuse that code.
And so,
this is the problem with nested logic.
Is that it's hard to test, air-go,
what's really hard to test and
in most cases
people just give up and
that you can never reuse it.
And so I can't tell you how many
times that I've seen nested logic in
a condition or within a function and
then I go to another component or
another service and I'm seeing like
basically the same exact thing.
Well, because there's no way for
me to share that code,
there's no ability to achieve a certain
level of cohesion because this
nested logic is coupled
to this data structure.
So, now,
these are the easiest problems to fix.
We do this via dependency injection and
extract method.
I could even say extract a parameter but
this is how you fix or
inoculate yourself from the axis of evil.
So when we look at this code right here,
what's the first thing
that we're gonna do?
Well, we're going to go and
we're going to take this bit of code here,
and
we're simply going to
extract it to a parameter.
And so instead of saying,
let me just get back here, this mode.
All I have to do is,
pass it in via parameter.
Problem solved.
You would be amazed at how
many times a component or
a function has been rendered completely
unstable because it has hidden state.
All you have to do is
extract to a parameter or
it's known as dependency injection.
So that's the first thing.
Super awesome.
I think, if you would just start doing
this, you've got your money's worth.